Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Michael Hoefer: Mr Aaronson. Can you hear me.
Michael Hoefer: I can't hear you.
Moto E (4): Can you hear me now.
Michael Hoefer: I can, yes.
Moto E (4): I'm just gonna go number one, when you came on the screen.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, if you need to use the restroom. That's fine. I can
Michael Hoefer: I can wait.
Moto E (4): A second
Michael Hoefer: Okay, go for it.
Moto E (4): Thank you so
No.
It's about branding is exactly the ideal opportunity to launch a new drink labels right corner the source.
Source.
And I would like to
Be your corporate sponsor.
Good morning and shake a stick.
Stick ridiculous because it down to do states tonight. Excellent. I also
Mix it up. Who's close to the source of all. What about Tracy
Tracy, well maybe that's not
Even
Feel like work jack
Michael Hoefer: No problem.
Michael Hoefer: So my name is Dr Hofer I'm a psychiatrist working with bright heart health, and it's nice to meet you.
Michael Hoefer: You too. And so I'm going to be doing your intake today into our program. We have about 3040 minutes where I'll be asking you about your opiate use but also you kind of your medical and psychiatric history. And then after that, we'll talk about a plan going forward.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, okay. So if I could just start by asking you how you heard about our program from a
Moto E (4): Friend going through the same program. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha, and
Michael Hoefer: Hopefully, that person is found our program helpful or recommended at a positive recommendation.
Michael Hoefer: Of course. Okay, great.
Michael Hoefer: And can you tell me, just in your own words, what brings you into treatment today.
Moto E (4): Well, I can't get off of a pills gambling doing heroin. Gotcha. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, yeah. So if you could tell me, you know, kind of just you know about. I'd like to hear about your opiate history. So when was the first time you ever used an opiate
Moto E (4): First time was back when I was, I believe, 21 years old was my start
Moto E (4): In heroin just but but I didn't really get into back then that much but but but I took a lot of barbecue Jewish. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And were you prescribe barbiturates back then, or would you buy them just kind of
Michael Hoefer: Some friends and sell
Michael Hoefer: off the street.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And at what point did you feel like heroin became a problem for you or he really came in addiction for you.
Moto E (4): And
Moto E (4): When I enjoyed it and I you should
Moto E (4): Maybe forget about my problems after a while.
Moto E (4): And
Moto E (4): I didn't like it at first because I got sick off of it.
Moto E (4): Mm hmm. You know, all the time.
Moto E (4): But I got over that.
Moto E (4): And then oxy cotton came into place.
Michael Hoefer: Mm hmm.
Moto E (4): And that and anyway. We went from oxy cotton to heroin.
Moto E (4): To
Moto E (4): Like
Moto E (4): Bike it in
Moto E (4): Aachen gotten
Moto E (4): Back and forth, but hair was cheaper than in pills, so
Michael Hoefer: And were you ever prescribed those oxy cotton or like it in for a long period of time, or would you mostly by them off the streets.
Moto E (4): I buy my outreach. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And recently with your heroin use and you know prescription opiate use, you know, how much are you spending on average a day on your opiate habit.
Moto E (4): Probably but $25 a day $30 a day. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And how do you use the heroin. When you use it.
Michael Hoefer: I injected. Okay, gotcha. And do you have, have you had any issues from injecting like abscesses or cellulitis or things like that.
Moto E (4): Yeah, I've heard that before. Okay, and
Moto E (4): But they go away. Yeah, it went away. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And do you have hepatitis C or HIV from injecting
Moto E (4): I had hepatitis C for a long time. Oh, I just got rid of it from my doctor
Michael Hoefer: Oh, great. Did you take the new the new pills, they have available.
Moto E (4): Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Oh yeah, great.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah. How was it, how did you tolerate the pills. Most people say they're really not bad side effect wise and really
Moto E (4): I didn't know
Moto E (4): It was like a miracle.
Moto E (4): Or tell me like
Michael Hoefer: That's so cool. Yeah, yeah, some people had had see for, you know, years, if not decades and now they're able to get rid of it, which is really great.
Michael Hoefer: Right, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And have you ever had a history of any overdoses on
Michael Hoefer: Opiates where you've needed to be Narc hand.
Moto E (4): Um,
Moto E (4): No, I never overdose. Why'd you go mercy room. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And what are the negative ways that your op uses affected your life, what kind of problems as a cause. What kind of suffering has a cause for you.
Moto E (4): Well, I go through his drawers and I don't have it. I sweat in air travel, you know, and
Moto E (4): It's terrible. It's a terrible feeling. I can't sleep.
Moto E (4): And it's just painful.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah yeah
Michael Hoefer: Cool. Yeah. And have you had any issues kind of with, you know, as, as you obey us because problems with your relationships or with work or things like that at all.
Moto E (4): Of course,
Yeah.
Moto E (4): But I kept that on. I tried to keep that on a closed doors thing, you know, behind me.
Moto E (4): I never
Moto E (4): I've never had a good job in my life because of
Moto E (4): Substance abuse. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and have people in your family or friends or people express concern over your heroin use
Moto E (4): I'm not really because I just functional family. Gotcha. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And it also sounds like you try to not you don't share your use with a lot of people and you try to keep it.
Moto E (4): Yeah. I try not to let people know. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And do you have, have you ever had any legal issues from your opiate use
Moto E (4): Um, no. I've never been busted or this and that, for no. Okay, good.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever been on any medications for opiate use in the past. Like, have you ever been on methadone like liquid methadone and a clinic.
Moto E (4): You know, because I've changed your message on before and it made me sick. Okay. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever tried Suboxone just like on the street. So one of your friends tablets or ever just tried it, to see what it how it worked for you.
Moto E (4): Yeah, I've tried a couple pills before
Michael Hoefer: And what did you think
Moto E (4): I liked you.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Didn't seem to help with the cravings and withdrawal and and seemed like it, it was helpful.
Michael Hoefer: Yes, yeah.
Moto E (4): What great
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever tried the third medication that's available for opiate addiction is a medication called Mel trek zone. And it's also available in a once a month injection called patrol. Have you ever tried that medication before
Michael Hoefer: You know, sure. Okay, gotcha. And are you using any other substances other than opiates right now like math or benzodiazepines or alcohol, tobacco, anything else.
Moto E (4): No, I drink once in a while. I don't know why, but I'm not a heavy drinker. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: In the past in your life. Have you ever been concerned about your alcohol use, or thought you had a problem with alcohol.
Moto E (4): No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Do you smoke cigarettes.
Moto E (4): Yeah, okay.
Michael Hoefer: About how many, on average, would you say a day.
Moto E (4): Probably about five a day, five or six a day.
Moto E (4): Effort by. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And how do you feel about your tobacco use.
Moto E (4): Well, like I can live with. I can live without it, really. I can go days without smoking.
Moto E (4): Okay, gotcha. Don't bother me that much. Gotcha. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And do you have any history of, you know, psychiatric issues like have you ever been diagnosed with depression or anxiety or other psychiatric issues.
Michael Hoefer: Yes. Okay. What kind of things have you struggled with.
Moto E (4): Depression and anxiety and my doctor has given me Janet or
Michael Hoefer: And do you have a current prescription for Xanax, so that was in the past that you've been on it.
Moto E (4): That was in the past.
Moto E (4): I gotten off of it. That's it.
Michael Hoefer: When did you get off Xanax
Moto E (4): When I moved up here. I'm out of bounds with Kaiser here.
Michael Hoefer: Uh huh.
Moto E (4): I moved up here to be by my family, my grandkids and my son by the House.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, so, yeah.
Moto E (4): Go ahead, I'm sorry.
Michael Hoefer: No, I'm sorry, I interrupted you. Please go
Moto E (4): Yours that you're telling me off. I've ever seen Chi Chi's you're getting my plan and everything. They kept me off. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And so when when so how long ago was that that you stopped using Xanax like months or years or WEEKS, WHAT WOULD YOU SAW
Moto E (4): Almost two years, year and a half ago. Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And that Xanax can be hard coming off of how was that for you.
Michael Hoefer: Hard. Yeah.
Moto E (4): I still have problems we're
Moto E (4): Still one it's
Michael Hoefer: It's a hard. It's a real hard detox, but
Moto E (4): It never goes away.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, the protracted withdrawal symptoms can last you know a year, year and a half, two years, you know,
Michael Hoefer: Take a long time for the body to adjust to transition off of a
Moto E (4): Little long I wonder
Michael Hoefer: It's really, we don't know. There's something about benzodiazepines and some and I don't know how you felt coming off for barbiturates but other sedatives just seemed like they really a takes, you know, it can take years for your body to try to get back to you know to get through it and
Michael Hoefer: And even like sensitivities to light.
Michael Hoefer: Sound and all these kind of things. I don't know if you've
Michael Hoefer: Experienced those but
Michael Hoefer: Yeah yeah
Moto E (4): But it's better for me to get off of it. I see.
Michael Hoefer: Definitely, yeah. And the more we're learning about benzodiazepines, in particular as you get older, increased risk of dementia increased risk of falls increased risk of total cause mortality. You know, it's
All that
Michael Hoefer: Over time, it's getting really bad know
Moto E (4): My memories bad enough as it is right now.
Michael Hoefer: You know,
Moto E (4): I got
Moto E (4): I don't have short term memory long term not short term. Gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and so are you on any medications. Now, any, any depressants any anti anxiety any meds right now.
Moto E (4): No, I asked my doctor gave me Janet share and you wouldn't do it. Gotcha. No doctor here. I'll give me Janet and it's hard to even get a shy Trish here.
Michael Hoefer: So, and have you ever been, like, have you ever had a suicide attempt to been suicidal in the past.
Moto E (4): No. Sure. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Have you ever been in the inpatient psychiatric hospital.
Michael Hoefer: Know. Sure. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And
Michael Hoefer: Do you have any medical issues that we need to know about.
Michael Hoefer: No. No. Okay. Do you take any other medications right now or nutritional supplements or herbal supplements or anything like that.
Moto E (4): Well, he tried to get me on and depression. This doctor here.
Uh huh.
Moto E (4): More he's done a psychiatry be tried it didn't work for me.
Michael Hoefer: And what happened when you took it. Does it just ineffective or do you have bad side.
Moto E (4): Effects that will
Moto E (4): Make me feel good. Oh, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And. But otherwise, you're pretty healthy, it sounds like you're saying you have some short term memory issues. Has anybody ever said you have like mild cognitive impairment or dementia or anything like that.
Moto E (4): No. No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: But short term memory can be can be like appointments or names or things like that can be tough for you.
Moto E (4): Yeah yeah
Moto E (4): Oh god that faces ain't
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And have you ever had any allergic reactions are really bad reactions city medications.
Moto E (4): No. No. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And in the past, you know, have you ever been in, you know, substance use treatment like residential substance use treatment or detoxes are in patients for long periods of time.
Michael Hoefer: No. Okay. Have you ever gone to a or na or any kind of mutual help groups like that.
Moto E (4): Yeah yeah and
Michael Hoefer: How did you feel about those groups.
Moto E (4): It would do is really bored me to death. The
Moto E (4): Second record over and over
Michael Hoefer: Okay so wasn't super helpful. Sounds like
Michael Hoefer: No, no. Gotcha. Yeah. You know, it's some people like it. Some people it doesn't work. And so that's a good reason there's lots of different options, you know,
Moto E (4): Right, more power to it the moment
Michael Hoefer: Sure. And what would you say is the longest period of time that you've been you know abstinent or clean and sober from heroin or other drugs, you know, in the last, you know, 10 years or so.
Moto E (4): Last 10 years
Now,
Michael Hoefer: Hello.
Moto E (4): Very long. Okay, sure.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, that's fine. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: All right. And how about family history. Is there any history of addiction in your family and siblings parents, children. Anybody have addiction issues.
Moto E (4): I'm alcohol. My mom drinking and I never met my dad before
Michael Hoefer: Okay, that's
Moto E (4): My mom I had asthma real bad. But alcohol was your main problem, she quit drinking and she smoked a lot
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. So mom drink. How about your siblings or children any of them have addiction issues.
Moto E (4): Opiates my son.
Moto E (4): Your son is open a box or whatever.
Michael Hoefer: You're saying type Suboxone
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah. And does he find it helpful.
Moto E (4): Yeah, it helps in a lot
Michael Hoefer: Great, great. Any psychiatric issues running your family like anybody schizophrenia or bipolar or bad depression or anything, you know,
Moto E (4): I think they're all
Moto E (4): Good.
Moto E (4): Yeah.
Moto E (4): On it.
Moto E (4): They see it in. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So you're the identified patient
Moto E (4): You know, like the black sheep. Right. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. Yeah, I have any of them been in psychiatric hospitals that, you know, of course, seeing
Moto E (4): Okay, they would never
Moto E (4): Do that I commit to it so
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And where were you born and where did you mostly grow up.
Moto E (4): I was born Shannon was based on my mom divorce, the guy that adopted me
Moto E (4): Because he be are all beer up all the time was two and two rows, run by the House.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Moto E (4): So I was raised there.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, great. And then did you did you suffer from physical abuse or sexual abuse as a child or emotional abuse. Oh, OK. And was that it was that like from step parents or other family members or
Moto E (4): My mom you physical and mental abuse me and my step guides are alcoholics and then boys are all the time. Gotcha. Oh, Mary, six times.
Michael Hoefer: Wow, that's, that's a lot.
Yes.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, to have a lot of hope by the fifth or sixth man.
Michael Hoefer: This is gonna work out.
Moto E (4): That that's one mistake. I never did you get married. Yeah, I guess maybe that had something to do with it. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, so you've never been married in your life. No. And how many children do you have
Moto E (4): I had two and one died five years ago.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, I'm sorry to hear that. What did they pass away your child.
Moto E (4): Well, a rare disease children and we use liver and kidney
Michael Hoefer: Cheese. That's terrible. Okay.
Moto E (4): I said,
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, I'm
Going
Michael Hoefer: Wow, that's, that's terrible. And you have inside that you have your one son who's alive, who's in, who's in recovery right now and you live with him in Marysville
Moto E (4): I live by him.
Michael Hoefer: By him. Okay.
Moto E (4): There's your life don't like me very much.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. So you're close by.
Moto E (4): But not enough. Right.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. And do you how far along. Did you go in school and your life.
Moto E (4): 12th grade.
Michael Hoefer: I graduate. Okay. And how was school for you.
Moto E (4): It was all right until they kick me off the baseball team. It had a regular high school as a catcher.
Moto E (4): Because a long way to kick me out of school.
Okay, gotcha.
Michael Hoefer: And then finished up there.
Moto E (4): That was for me.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, and then you mentioned, kind of, you know, work history that you know it was there anything that you like to do or anything that you did work history wise.
Moto E (4): I always wanted to be a
Moto E (4): music producer our DJ or shut my love music
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool. Do you do you play anything or do you
Moto E (4): play guitar dabble in that
Michael Hoefer: Oh, cool. That's great. And you like do you. So then, do you like like rock or jazz or blues or what do you like or everything
Moto E (4): I like it up, but I love the blues, though I love know town.
Michael Hoefer: Cool.
Moto E (4): Old rocking on that stuff is they don't make music that used to
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, you look classic
Classic
Moto E (4): All the good use case for
Michael Hoefer: Sure. I agree. I agree.
Michael Hoefer: And how do you, you know, as far as these days. How do you support yourself like economically.
I'm on
Moto E (4): Your side.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. And is that, is that enough you have enough to sounds like have a place to stay. And have you know
Michael Hoefer: Food or how do you, okay.
Moto E (4): If I wasn't on Section eight admission, I'd be really bad off.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, gotcha. So you got Section eight with a reduced rent that's helping you.
Moto E (4): Know john and even then I'm I run out of money paying bills. The first week.
Michael Hoefer: Gotcha. So you're really, you know, month to month and then trying to support a an opiate habit on top of that is is
Moto E (4): Plentiful no yeah
Michael Hoefer: And do you, you know, do you ever have to sell or do things to try to get money for opiates like
Moto E (4): Oh yeah, sometimes
Michael Hoefer: Yeah.
Moto E (4): I guess I'm
Moto E (4): Not traveling. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: But other stuff. Yeah.
Michael Hoefer: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, well, you know, those are the main questions. I need to ask you for our standard intake. I appreciate you answering them all. I know it's a lot. Was there anything that I left out or feel like, is there anything else you feel like I need to know at this point.
Moto E (4): No you you hit the nail right on the head, but every question.
Michael Hoefer: Okay, thanks.
Michael Hoefer: All right, well, I think, you know, having given our conversation. I think it's very clear that you know you have what we consider an opiate use disorder and opiate addiction.
Michael Hoefer: And I think you would be a really good candidate for Suboxone I mean you've tried it. You also have some family members who have good responses to it and some of the
Michael Hoefer: For some of the medications, you know, genetic response kind of travels and families. So if your son has responded well to it, it's likely that you will as well, which is very cool.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And so the way that we would recommend you start it you know Suboxone is a very safe and easy medication is to take the only thing that's
Michael Hoefer: Somewhat, you have to be careful, is when you take that first dose. You got to make sure that you're in moderate opiate withdrawal. So you want to really wait till you take that first dose, because if you take that first dose too early, you can get sick, basically.
Moto E (4): Okay. Oh.
Michael Hoefer: So after we're done with this appointment I can prescribe the medication electronically through you. You can pick it up.
Michael Hoefer: But I would wait. You know, usually for heroin people I really recommend people to wait at least 12 to 14 hours and wait as long as you can tell, you really in withdrawal. So when you take that first dose it makes you feel a lot better not worse. Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And what we'll do is we'll give you eight milligrams, or have you been taking the tablets are the films.
Moto E (4): The film.
Michael Hoefer: Okay.
Michael Hoefer: So we can give you the films, if that's been working well for you.
Moto E (4): And
Michael Hoefer: What we want you to just do is cut them in for the first day we want you to just cut them in half and take four milligrams at a time.
Michael Hoefer: So what you do is you just you wait till your and, you know, moderate withdrawal. You take four milligrams after a few hours if
Michael Hoefer: See how you're feeling and after a couple hours. Take another four milligrams and you can just keep taking it up until a max of 60 milligrams and the first 24 hours.
Michael Hoefer: Just take four milligrams every couple hours.
Michael Hoefer: And if you get to a point where you're like, Hey, I feel good. I don't need any more. Just don't take any more. And if you keep feeling like you need more take up to 60 milligrams
Michael Hoefer: And then after that first day that first 24 hours, whatever amount you took just start taking that daily going forward.
Okay.
Michael Hoefer: And you just you, you probably already know this, but just make sure you put it under your tongue to let it absorb if you swallow it or don't put it under your tongue. It won't get in your system.
Michael Hoefer: And don't eat or drink anything about 15 minutes beforehand because it will affect the acidity in your mouth and you won't absorb it as good
Moto E (4): Okay, yeah.
Michael Hoefer: And then that's basically it. I can give you from this intake. I can give you a one week supply of the medication.
Michael Hoefer: And then in a day or two, our care coordinator will get in contact with you.
Michael Hoefer: And get you connected with a continuity therapist and a position to go to meet with overtime.
Michael Hoefer: And just get you involved in our program.
Great.
Moto E (4): Your health doctor
Michael Hoefer: Oh yeah, absolutely. Are there any questions about the way the medication works or
Michael Hoefer: The program or side effects or anything else at this time.
Moto E (4): You cover you covered it.
Michael Hoefer: Okay. All right, great. Well, welcome to our program and I wish you the best of luck and take care
Moto E (4): Thank you.
Moto E (4): All right. Sure. Sure. Absolutely.
Michael Hoefer: Have a good one.
Moto E (4): You too. God bless.